---
layout: post
# Your title goes here
title: Engineering collective intelligence at the edge with aggregate processes
# List authors here as they appear in the paper
authors: Roberto Casadei, Mirko Viroli, Giorgio Audrito, Danilo Pianini, Ferruccio Damiani
# List keywords to get more visibility
tags: [Computational collective intelligence, Self-organisation, Distributed computing, Aggregate programming, Computational fields, Multi-agent systems]
# Add the journal / proceedings
journal: Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence Volume 97, January 2021, 104081
# Add the DOI. If you do so, it will get automatically linked
doi: 10.1016/j.engappai.2020.104081
# Everithing written before <!--more--> will appear directly in the publications page
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Edge computing promotes the execution of complex computational processes without the cloud, i.e., on top of the heterogeneous, articulated, and possibly mobile systems composed of IoT and edge devices. Such a pervasive smart fabric augments our environment with computing and networking capabilities. This leads to a complex and dynamic ecosystem of devices that should not only exhibit individual intelligence but also collective intelligence—the ability to take group decisions or process knowledge among autonomous units of a distributed environment. Self-adaptation and self-organisation mechanisms are also typically required to ensure continuous and inherent toleration of changes of various kinds, to distribution of devices, energy available, computational load, as well as faults. To achieve this behaviour in a massively distributed setting like edge computing demands, we seek for identifying proper abstractions, and engineering tools therefore, to smoothly capture collective behaviour, adaptivity, and dynamic injection and execution of concurrent distributed activities. Accordingly, we elaborate on a notion of “aggregate process” as a concurrent collective computation whose execution and interactions are sustained by a dynamic team of devices, whose spatial region can opportunistically vary over time. We ground this notion by extending the aggregate computing model and toolchain with new constructs to instantiate aggregate processes and regulate key aspects of their lifecycle. By virtue of an open-source implementation in the ScaFi framework, we show basic programming examples as well as case studies of edge computing, evaluated by simulation in realistic settings.

 <!--more-->

[Full paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197620303389)
