---
layout: post
# Your title goes here
title: "A quantitative assessment of team members physiological traits and interactions for the development of Collective Intelligence in a clinical scenario"
# List authors here as they appear in the paper
authors: Daniela Lo Presti, Francesca De Tommasi, Chiara Romano, Blandina Lanni, Massimiliano Carassiti, Giancarlo Fortino, Emiliano Schena
# List keywords to get more visibility
tags: [Collective intelligence, wearable systems, physiological monitoring, group behaviors.]
# Add the journal / proceedings
journal:  2022 IEEE Intl Conf on Dependable, Autonomic and Secure Computing, Intl Conf on Pervasive Intelligence and Computing, Intl Conf on Cloud and Big Data Computing, Intl Conf on Cyber Science and Technology Congress (DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/CyberSciTech)
# Add the DOI. If you do so, it will get automatically linked
doi: 10.1109/DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/Cy55231.2022.9927953
# Everithing written before <!--more--> will appear directly in the publications page
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

The ability of a team to work together across a wide variety of tasks is known as collective intelligence (CI). In the last decades, CI is gaining traction in healthcare since its potential in enhancing teamwork and patient safety through improved medical procedures. Nevertheless, CI remains poorly characterized in the clinical setting and its implications in improving teamwork and surgical outcomes lack in the literature. Recently, wearable systems have been used to measure physiological signals and quantify the group behaviors of a surgical team. However, no works have still focused on investigating how individual characteristics and group behaviors can be combined to establish models of effective teamwork and, consequently, strengthen CI.In this study, we proposed the combined use of a wearable system and video recordings to quantitively assess changes in physiological traits of two team members (a medical trainee and an anesthesiologist) before and during a medical procedure. In details, a wearable chest strap was used to monitor vital signs and the level of activity of each user while a video was contextually recorded to evaluate the level of teamwork in terms of speaking time and face-to-face interactions. The proposed technologies were able to work in the scenario of interest recording data useful to quantify aspects related to both individuals’ traits and human interactions. The most remarkable changes according to the level of experience were found in the heart rate and its variability were found. These promising results will foster future interventions on a clinical scenario involving a higher number of team members and under more challenging medical procedures (e.g., inside the operating room) for improving team effectiveness and supporting the development of CI in clinical settings.
[Full paper](https://doi.org/10.1109/DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/Cy55231.2022.9927953)
